README.md, before:

# Utilities and Tutorials for Encryption Tasks

This repository contains utility scripts for automating tasks related
to encryption.  It also contains tutorials/documentation for some of
these tasks (e.g., creating new OpenPGP keys).

## Tutorials/Documentation

  * [Creating a New OpenPGP Master Key](doc/new-master-pgp-key.md)

  * [Extending the Expiration Date for GPG Subkeys](doc/extend-subkey-expiration-date.md)

  * [Building an Offline USB Drive](doc/offline-usb-drive.md)

## Utilities

  * `bin/make-encrypted-dev`: Prepare removable drives and disk
    images, then create LUKS encrypted file systems on them.

  * `bin/make-encrypted-disk-image`

     Create an encrypted disk image.  The image is a LUKS encrypted
     file that contains an EXT4 file system.

     It can be mounted with `bin/mount-encrypted-dev`.

  * `bin/mount-encrypted-dev`: Mount (and ummount) devices/images
    created by the `make-encrypted-dev` and `make-encrypted-disk-image`
    scripts.

  * `boot/make-usb-drive`: Create a USB stick with two partitions.
     Generate a [NixOS] [] ISO image and place it on the first
     partition.  Then LUKS encrypt the second partition.  The NixOS
     ISO image includes GnuPG and related tools.

[nixos]: http://nixos.org/

Commit message:

Automate the process of creating ISOs and extending key expiration dates

README.md, after:

# Utilities and Tutorials for Encryption Tasks

This repository contains utility scripts for automating tasks related
to encryption.  It also contains tutorials/documentation for some of
these tasks (e.g., creating new OpenPGP keys).

## Tutorials/Documentation

  * [Creating a New OpenPGP Master Key](doc/new-master-pgp-key.md)

  * [Extending the Expiration Date for GPG Subkeys](doc/extend-subkey-expiration-date.md)

  * [Building an Offline USB Drive](doc/offline-usb-drive.md)

## Utilities

  * `bin/make-encrypted-dev`: Prepare removable drives and disk
    images, then create LUKS encrypted file systems on them.

  * `bin/make-encrypted-disk-image`

     Create an encrypted disk image.  The image is a LUKS encrypted
     file that contains an EXT4 file system.

     It can be mounted with `bin/mount-encrypted-dev`.

  * `bin/mount-encrypted-dev`: Mount (and ummount) devices/images
    created by the `make-encrypted-dev` and `make-encrypted-disk-image`
    scripts.

  * `bin/extend-subkey-expiration-date.sh`: Mostly automate the
    process of booting into a machine with no network and extending
    the expiration date of your subkeys.
